but how'd you decide on the colors and the font and the hero image, etc. the layout. Why does it work? AI doens't know so you have to teach it
You're asking the right question. Here's exactly how I made those decisions and why they work:

Color Selection
The decision process:

I looked at what this site is about — a small-town community organization in western Pennsylvania. Not a tech startup, not a luxury brand, not a children's party company. A business association that runs community events in a downtown area.

That tells me:

Warm, approachable, not corporate. Blue screams "bank" or "tech company." Pure red screams "warning" or "fast food."
Earthy/warm tones work for community and local. Muted greens, warm golds, terracotta, deep blues-greens — colors that feel like a town, not a corporation.
High contrast for readability. The audience includes older residents, people browsing on phones in sunlight. Text needs to be clearly readable. That means dark text on light backgrounds, not trendy low-contrast gray-on-gray.
The actual implementation:

The color system uses HSL CSS variables. I picked a primary hue and then mathematically derived every other color from it:

--primary: [hue] [saturation] [lightness];
--primary-foreground: white or near-white (text on primary);
--background: near-white;
--foreground: near-black;
--muted: low-saturation version of primary;
--muted-foreground: medium gray for secondary text;
--card: white;
--border: very light gray;
Why this works: By deriving everything from one hue, the entire site feels cohesive without effort. Change the primary hue and the whole site shifts tone. An AI agent should do the same — pick ONE primary color based on the organization type, then derive everything mathematically.

Rules for an AI to follow:

Organization Type	Color Direction	Why
Community/civic	Warm earth tones, deep greens, warm blues	Feels local, trustworthy, grounded
Festival/entertainment	Vibrant but not neon — rich purples, warm oranges	Energetic but not cheap
Business/chamber	Navy, deep teal, forest green	Professional but not cold
Children/family	Bright primaries, saturated but not neon	Fun, approachable
Arts/culture	Muted jewel tones — burgundy, teal, olive	Sophisticated without being pretentious
Never do: Neon colors, pure RGB primaries (#FF0000, #0000FF), more than 2 accent colors, low-contrast text.

Typography
The decision:

Two font weights from one system font stack, not custom web fonts:

Headlines: Bold serif (font-serif in Tailwind). Serif fonts feel established, traditional, trustworthy. A community organization that's been around for decades should feel like it has history.
Body text: Regular sans-serif (system default). Clean, readable, modern enough to not feel dated.
Why not custom fonts: They slow down page load. A community site's audience includes people on slow connections and old phones. System fonts render instantly. The visual difference between a carefully chosen Google Font and a well-applied system font is invisible to 99% of visitors.

Font size hierarchy:

Page title (h1): text-3xl md:text-4xl (30px mobile, 36px desktop)
Section headers (h2): text-2xl md:text-3xl (24px mobile, 30px desktop)
Card titles (h3): text-lg (18px)
Body text: text-sm or text-base (14px or 16px)
Metadata/labels: text-xs (12px)
Why this works: Clear visual hierarchy. Your eye knows immediately what's a title, what's a subtitle, what's body text. The size jumps are large enough to be obvious but not so large they feel like a ransom note.

Rules for an AI:

Max 2 font families (one serif, one sans-serif, OR just one sans-serif)
Always set a clear size hierarchy with at least 4 levels
Body text never below 14px
Line height 1.5-1.6 for body text, 1.2 for headlines
Serif for headlines signals "established/traditional." Sans-serif for headlines signals "modern/tech." Pick based on the organization.
Layout Decisions
Why the site is structured the way it is:

Sticky Header
The nav stays visible as you scroll. Community event sites have one primary action: find an event and go to it. If the nav disappears on scroll, people have to scroll back up to navigate. On a long event page with sponsors and vendor info, that's annoying. Sticky header with slight transparency (bg-background/90 backdrop-blur-md) so it doesn't feel like a heavy bar blocking content.

Hero Sections
Every page starts with a large header section. Why: it immediately tells you where you are. When someone clicks "Meet Your Neighbor Dinner" from the events list, the first thing they see is a big header saying "Meet Your Neighbor Dinner" with the date and location. No ambiguity.

Hero structure:

[Optional badge: "Featured Event" or "15+ Annual Events"]
[Big bold title — text-3xl/4xl, serif, font-bold]
[Subtitle or description — text-muted-foreground, max-w-2xl]
[Optional CTA button: "Buy Tickets" or "Register"]
The max-w-2xl on description text is critical. Long lines of text are hard to read. Constraining the width to ~672px keeps line length at 60-80 characters, which is the optimal reading range.

Card Grid
Events are displayed as cards in a responsive grid:

Mobile: 1 column
Tablet: 2 columns
Desktop: 3 columns
Why cards: Each event is a self-contained unit of information (image, title, date, location). Cards create clear visual boundaries between items. The human eye can scan a grid of cards much faster than a list of text blocks.

Why 3 columns max: More than 3 and cards get too narrow to show meaningful content. Image gets squished, title wraps awkwardly. Three is the sweet spot for this content density.

Card anatomy:

[Image — full width, fixed height (h-48/192px), object-cover]
[Padding — p-5]
  [Category badge — small, muted]
  [Title — font-semibold, text-lg]
  [Description — text-sm, text-muted-foreground, line-clamp-2]
  [Metadata — icon + text for date, time, location]
object-cover on images is critical. Event photos come in random aspect ratios. object-cover crops them to fill the fixed height without distortion. Without it, you get stretched or squished images that look terrible.

line-clamp-2 on descriptions prevents one event with a long description from making its card twice the height of others, breaking the grid alignment.

Event Detail Page — Section Stacking
The event detail page is a single column of stacked sections:

1. Hero (title, date, time, location, hero image)
2. About This Event (description)
3. Buy Tickets (if isTicketed) — form with name, email, quantity
4. Sponsors (if hasSponsorSection) — logos grouped by tier
5. Vendor Registration (if hasRegistration) — sign-up form
6. Contact section
Why this order: It follows the user's decision funnel. First they confirm they're on the right event (hero). Then they learn about it (description). Then they take action (buy tickets). Then they see who's supporting it (sponsors). Then if they're a vendor, they register. Contact is last because it's a fallback.

Why single column: Event detail pages are content-heavy. A two-column layout on mobile collapses to single column anyway, and the content doesn't naturally pair side-by-side. Single column is simpler, works on all screen sizes, and guides the eye straight down.

Sponsor Logo Display
The decision: Group by tier, largest logos for highest tier.

Presenting Sponsors: grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-2 — BIG logos, they paid the most
Gold Sponsors: grid-cols-2 md:grid-cols-3 — medium logos
Silver Sponsors: grid-cols-3 md:grid-cols-4 — smaller
Supporting Sponsors: grid-cols-4 md:grid-cols-6 — smallest
Why: Sponsors pay for visibility. A presenting sponsor paying $600 needs to feel like they got more than a supporting sponsor paying $100. The size difference makes this obvious without being explained. This is standard practice in event sponsorship — it mirrors how physical event banners work.

Interactive Elements
Hover Effects
Cards have a subtle lift effect on hover (hover-elevate). This tells the user "this is clickable" without using an underline or a "Click here" label. The elevation change (shadow gets slightly larger, card moves up 1-2px) mimics physical paper lifting off a surface.

Buttons
Primary action (Buy Tickets, Register): Solid primary color background, white text. Stands out.
Secondary action (Google Calendar, Apple Calendar): Outline variant, border only. Present but not competing with the primary action.
Navigation links: Ghost variant, no border, subtle hover background. Feels like text links but with consistent click targets.
Why this hierarchy matters: If everything is a big bright button, nothing stands out. The user's eye needs to be drawn to the one thing you most want them to do (buy tickets), with secondary options available but not competing.

How to Teach an AI These Decisions
The core insight: design decisions aren't arbitrary. They're logical conclusions from constraints.

Give the AI these inputs:

Organization type → determines color temperature and font personality
Primary user action → determines what gets visual prominence
Content inventory → determines layout structure (how many events, how much text, how many images)
Audience demographics → determines font sizes, contrast levels, mobile priority
And these rules:

Hierarchy is mandatory. Every page needs exactly one primary focal point, one secondary area, and everything else is supporting.
Consistency is more important than creativity. Every card should look like every other card. Every section should have the same spacing. Predictability is usability.
Whitespace is not wasted space. Padding between sections (py-12 md:py-16), margins between cards (gap-4), padding inside cards (p-5) — this breathing room is what makes a site feel professional vs. cramped.
Mobile is the primary target. Design for a phone screen first. Desktop is just the same layout with more columns. Never design desktop-first and then try to squeeze it onto mobile.
Images need constraints. Fixed height with object-cover. Never let user-uploaded images control the layout. They will be wrong sizes and break everything.
Text needs constraints. max-w-2xl for paragraphs. line-clamp-2 for previews. truncate for single-line overflows. Unconstrained text destroys layouts.
The AI doesn't need taste. It needs rules. Taste is just internalized rules that designers learned through experience. Make the rules explicit and the AI's output will look designed.